Announcement post for Istio 1.6 (#7334)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.6.x/announcing-1.6/_index.md

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.6
linktitle: 1.6
subtitle: Major Update
description: Istio 1.6 release announcement.
publishdate: 2020-05-21
release: 1.6.0
skip_list: true
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.6.0
    - /news/announcing-1.6
---

We are pleased to announce the release of Istio 1.6!

{{< relnote >}}

With this release, we are continuing the path we charted earlier this year in
our [roadmap post](/blog/2020/tradewinds-2020/), sailing toward more
simplicity, a better installation experience, and some other goodies as well.

Here’s some of what’s coming to you in today's release:

## Simplify, simplify, simplify

Last release, we introduced **Istiod**, a component that reduced the number of
components in an Istio installation by combining the functionality of several
other components. In Istio 1.6, we have completed this transition and have fully
moved functionality into Istiod. This has allowed us to remove Citadel, the
sidecar injector, and Galley.

> You'll also find that we are using the new `appProtocol` field in the Kubernetes

Reviewer: Should we lead with the benefit, rather than the implementation detail?

Author: Great suggestion. Done.

the new upgrade experience.

## Observe this

Many companies adopt Istio solely to get better observability of distributed
applications, so we continue to invest there. There are too many changes to list
them all here, so please see the [release notes](news/releases/1.6.x/announcing-1.6/change-notes/)
for the full details. Some
highlights: you'll see more configurability, better
ability to control your trace sampling rates, and updated Grafana dashboards
(and we're even publishing them on [Grafana](https://grafana.com) on the
[Istio org page](https://grafana.com/orgs/istio)).

## Better Virtual Machine support

Expanding our support for workloads not running in Kubernetes was one of the
our major areas of investment for 2020, and we're excited to announce some
great progress here.

For those of you who are adding non-Kubernetes workloads to meshes (for
example, workloads deployed on VMs), the new
[`WorkloadEntry`](/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-entry/) resource
makes that easier than ever. We created this API to give non-Kubernetes
workloads first-class representation in Istio. It elevates a VM or bare metal

> workload to the same level as a Kubernetes pod, instead of just an endpoint

Reviewer: s/pod/Pod

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.6
linktitle: 1.6
subtitle: Major Update
description: Istio 1.6 release announcement.
publishdate: 2020-05-21
release: 1.6.0
skip_list: true
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.6.0
    - /news/announcing-1.6
---

We are pleased to announce the release of Istio 1.6!

{{< relnote >}}

With this release, we are continuing the path we charted earlier this year in
our [roadmap post](/blog/2020/tradewinds-2020/), sailing toward more

> simplicity, a better installation experience, and some other goodies as well.

Reviewer: and adding some other goodies (needs to be active voice)

Here’s some of what’s coming to you in today's release:

## Simplify, simplify, simplify

Last release, we introduced **Istiod**, a component that reduced the number of
components in an Istio installation by combining the functionality of several
other components. In Istio 1.6, we have completed this transition and have fully

> moved functionality into Istiod. This has allowed us to remove Citadel, the

Reviewer: "remove the separate Deployments for"; to make it clear the functionality remains

Author: great suggestion. done

sidecar injector, and Galley.

> Great news! We've got a simplified experience for developers who are taking

Reviewer: This is only Alpha in Kubernetes 1.18 and so sounds a little overselling to me.

What about "As Kubernetes advanced and adds support for defining protocols, Istio will be able to learn from this too. In the upcoming 1.19 release, support for defining an `AppProtocol` on a `Service` will mean you will no longer need to append the name field  to denote the protocol.

Better link is also https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1507

Author: I'll take your link and rephrase to include alpha. But I'm also going to make it clear that Kubernetes has this in alpha in 1.18.

Upgrading Istio has been improved as well, in several powerful ways. First, we
now support canarying of the Istio control plane itself. That means you can
install a new version of the control plane alongside the existing version and
selectively have proxies use the new one.

We also have an `istioctl upgrade` command that will perform an in-place
upgrade in your clusters (still giving you the control over updating the proxies
themselves).

Check out the [documentation](/docs/setup/upgrade/) for all of the details on
the new upgrade experience.

## Observe this!

Many companies adopt Istio solely to get better observability of distributed
applications, so we continue to invest there. You'll have to read the release
notes to see all of the features, but you'll see more configurability, better
ability to control your trace sampling rates, and updated Grafana dashboards
(and we're even publishihg them on 'grafana.com' on the [Istio org page]
(https://grafana.com/orgs/istio)).

## Other improvements
There are great traffic management features (like supporting the experimental
Kubernetes Service APIs, better support for Ingress, and better header
handling).

> For those of you who are adding non-Kubernetes workloads to meshes (for

Reviewer 2: we might want to make this a bit more prominent

Reviewer 2: We created an API called WorkloadEntry to elevate a VM or bare metal machine to the same level as a kubernetes pod, to give it first class representation in Istio, instead of just a dumb endpoint with some IP address. We now have the ability to define a Service that is backed by both Pods and VMs. Users now have the ability to have a heterogeneous mix of deployments (VMs and Pods) for the same service, providing a great way for migrating VM workloads to the mesh. 

or something along those lines.. and this can be called out on its own..

Reviewer 2: cc @smawson

Author: Great suggestion -- that was the detail I needed to give it its own section. Doing that now!

Reviewer 3: There's also a blog post PR about this that could be linked to from the announce post. See #7321

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.6
linktitle: 1.6
subtitle: Major Update
description: Istio 1.6 release announcement.
publishdate: 2020-05-19
release: 1.6.0
skip_list: true
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.6.0
    - /news/announcing-1.6
---

We are pleased to announce the release of Istio 1.6!

{{< relnote >}}

With this release, we are continuing the path we charted earlier this year in
our [roadmap post](/blog/2020/tradewinds-2020/), sailing toward more
simplicity, a better installation experience, and some other goodies as well.

Here’s some of what’s coming to you in today's release:

## Simplify, simplify, simplify

Last release, we introduced **Istiod**, a component that reduced the number of
components in an Istio installation by combining the functionality of several

> other components. In Istio 1.6, you'll find that Citadel, the sidecar

Reviewer 4: nit: To the unfamiliar this may sound like we are removing more things in 1.6 as part of the default install. For most users these were already removed in 1.5. Now there is just no way to configure them at all.

Maybe we can rephrase this to something along the lines of "In Istio 1.6 we have completed this transition and have fully moved functionality into Istiod, allowing us to remove x y z" or similar?

Author: Great suggestion. Done.

injector and Galley are no longer deployed.

> You'll also find that we are using the new `AppProtocol` API from Kubernetes.

Reviewer 5: `appProtocol` is not an API, rather an internal field in the the EndpointPort API.

A better way to write this sentence would be
```
"You'll also find that we are using the new `appProtocol` field in the [EndpointPort](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.18/#endpoints-v1-core) API.```

Author: great suggestion. done.

Reviewer 4: nit: Kubernetes users don't know what EndpointPort is, its an internal name. We can just clarify that its for selecting the protocol in Service. And maybe link to https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/#manual-protocol-selection instead of k8s api where we explain how and why to use this

What does that mean for you? It means that you won't need to use the name
field in your service to denote the protocol -- a simpler user experience.

## Better lifecycle

We continue to make installing and upgrading Istio a better experience. Our
command line tool `istioctl` gives better diagnostic information, has a simpler

> install command, and even gives status in color!

Reviewer 5: Lovin it 👍

Upgrading Istio has been improved as well, in several powerful ways. First, we

> now support canarying of the Istio control plane itself. That means you can

Reviewer 3: How about putting a link to @howardjohn's blog post here?

Author: It's not published yet...happy to enlinkify it when that's published.

Reviewer 3: It's in preliminary, targeted to go out with the release. https://preliminary.istio.io/blog/2020/multiple-control-planes/

install a new version of the control plane alongside the existing version and
selectively have proxies use the new one.

We also have an `istioctl upgrade` command that will perform an in-place
upgrade in your clusters (still giving you the control over updating the proxies
themselves).

Check out the [documentation](/docs/setup/upgrade/) for all of the details on
the new upgrade experience.

## Observe this

Many companies adopt Istio solely to get better observability of distributed
applications, so we continue to invest there. You'll have to read the release
notes to see all of the features, but you'll see more configurability, better
ability to control your trace sampling rates, and updated Grafana dashboards
(and we're even publishing them on [Grafana](https://grafana.com) on the
[Istio org page](https://grafana.com/orgs/istio)).

> ## Better VM support

Reviewer 5: might break down the acronym. I think its safe to say everyone knows what VM means, however, blog posts should be free of acronyms if possible.

Author: done!

> ## Better VM support

Reviewer 5: after line 62, an empty line is needed for proper markdown formatting - to ensure the linter passes and the document renders properly.

Author: Done.

For those of you who are adding non-Kubernetes workloads to meshes (for
example, workloads deployed on VMs), the new
[WorkloadEntry](/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-entry/) resource
makes that easier than ever. We created this API to give non-Kubernetes
workloads first-class representation in Istio. It elevates a VM or bare metal
workloads to the same level as a Kubernetes pod, instead of just an endpoint
with an IP address. You now even have the ability to define a Service that is
backed by both Pods and VMs. Why is that useful? Well, now you now have the
ability to have a heterogeneous mix of deployments (VMs and Pods) for the same
service, providing a great way for migrating VM workloads to the mesh.

Expanding support for VM-based workloads was another theme we called out
in our roadmap post, and you can expect to see more in this area over the

> coming releases.

Reviewer 5: 💯 🥇 👍

API. What does that mean for you? It means that you won't need to use the name
field in your service to denote the protocol -- a simpler user experience.

## Better lifecycle

We continue to make installing and upgrading Istio a better experience. Our
command line tool `istioctl` gives better diagnostic information, has a simpler
install command, and even gives status in color!

Upgrading Istio has been improved as well, in several powerful ways. First, we
now support canarying of the Istio control plane itself. That means you can
install a new version of the control plane alongside the existing version and
selectively have proxies use the new one.

We also have an `istioctl upgrade` command that will perform an in-place
upgrade in your clusters (still giving you the control over updating the proxies
themselves).

Check out the [documentation](/docs/setup/upgrade/) for all of the details on
the new upgrade experience.

## Observe this

Many companies adopt Istio solely to get better observability of distributed
applications, so we continue to invest there. You'll have to read the release

> notes to see all of the features, but you'll see more configurability, better

Reviewer 6: Consider rephrasing to something like "there are too many changes to list them all here, so see the release notes for the full details"

Author: done

ability to control your trace sampling rates, and updated Grafana dashboards
(and we're even publishing them on [Grafana](https://grafana.com) on the
[Istio org page](https://grafana.com/orgs/istio)).

## Better Virtual Machine support

For those of you who are adding non-Kubernetes workloads to meshes (for
example, workloads deployed on VMs), the new
[`WorkloadEntry`](/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-entry/) resource
makes that easier than ever. We created this API to give non-Kubernetes
workloads first-class representation in Istio. It elevates a VM or bare metal

> workloads to the same level as a Kubernetes pod, instead of just an endpoint

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
workload to the same level as a Kubernetes pod, instead of just an endpoint
```

Author: I rephrased. Have had a customer specifically talk about the desire to use this to help migrate workloads from vms to clusters without disrupting traffic to/from. Check it out.

with an IP address. You now even have the ability to define a Service that is

> backed by both Pods and VMs. Why is that useful? Well, now you now have the

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
backed by both Pods and VMs. Why is that useful? Well, now you have the
```

ability to have a heterogeneous mix of deployments (VMs and Pods) for the same

> service, providing a great way for migrating VM workloads to the mesh.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
service, providing a great way to migrate VM workloads to the mesh.
```

Author: done.

> service, providing a great way for migrating VM workloads to the mesh.

Reviewer 6: This is actually a little weird, since sharing a service across pods and vms isn't really about migrating to the mesh (they're already both in the mesh). Maybe we mean migrating to containers? Or we can just leave it more open and not describe an example use case?

Reviewer 2: I like the migrating to kubernetes part

> Expanding support for VM-based workloads was another theme we called out

Reviewer 6: Maybe we can pull the first part of this up to the beginning of the section? Otherwise it reads a bit weird. Or reword somehow...

Author: I split it into two. PTAL.

in our roadmap post, and you can expect to see more in this area over the
coming releases.

## Other improvements

> There are great traffic management features (like supporting the experimental

Reviewer 6: This feels like an afterthought, needs slightly more love.

Reviewer: Do we have the first implementation of the Service APIs? That feels worth calling out

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.6
linktitle: 1.6
subtitle: Major Update
description: Istio 1.6 release announcement.

> publishdate: 2020-05-19

Reviewer 7: This should be the 21st

Author: fixed

release: 1.6.0
skip_list: true
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.6.0
    - /news/announcing-1.6
---

We are pleased to announce the release of Istio 1.6!

{{< relnote >}}

With this release, we are continuing the path we charted earlier this year in
our [roadmap post](/blog/2020/tradewinds-2020/), sailing toward more
simplicity, a better installation experience, and some other goodies as well.

Here’s some of what’s coming to you in today's release:

## Simplify, simplify, simplify

Last release, we introduced **Istiod**, a component that reduced the number of
components in an Istio installation by combining the functionality of several
other components. In Istio 1.6, we have completed this transition and have fully

> moved functionality into Istiod, allowing us to remove Citadel, the sidecar

Reviewer 7: this sentence sounds weird.

```suggestion
moved functionality into Istiod/ This has allowed us to remove Citadel, the sidecar injector, and Galley.
```

[`EndpointPort`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.18/#endpoints-v1-core)
API. What does that mean for you? It means that you won't need to use the name
field in your service to denote the protocol -- a simpler user experience.

## Better lifecycle

We continue to make installing and upgrading Istio a better experience. Our
command line tool `istioctl` gives better diagnostic information, has a simpler
install command, and even gives status in color!

Upgrading Istio has been improved as well, in several powerful ways. First, we
now support canarying of the Istio control plane itself. That means you can
install a new version of the control plane alongside the existing version and
selectively have proxies use the new one.

We also have an `istioctl upgrade` command that will perform an in-place
upgrade in your clusters (still giving you the control over updating the proxies
themselves).

Check out the [documentation](/docs/setup/upgrade/) for all of the details on
the new upgrade experience.

## Observe this

Many companies adopt Istio solely to get better observability of distributed

> applications, so we continue to invest there. You'll have to read the release

Reviewer 7: should this link to the release notes?

Author: YES! Will fix.

Author: Fixed, and also there will be a link at the top autogenerated like the table you see on https://istio.io/news/releases/1.5.x/announcing-1.5/

workloads to the same level as a Kubernetes pod, instead of just an endpoint
with an IP address. You now even have the ability to define a Service that is
backed by both Pods and VMs. Why is that useful? Well, now you now have the
ability to have a heterogeneous mix of deployments (VMs and Pods) for the same
service, providing a great way for migrating VM workloads to the mesh.

Expanding support for VM-based workloads was another theme we called out
in our roadmap post, and you can expect to see more in this area over the
coming releases.

## Other improvements

There are great traffic management features (like supporting the experimental
Kubernetes Service APIs, better support for Ingress, and better header
handling).

## Join the Istio community

As always, there is a lot happening in the
[Community Meeting](https://github.com/istio/community#community-meeting);
join us every other Thursday at 11 AM Pacific. We'd love to have you join the
conversation at [Istio Discuss](https://discuss.istio.io), and you can also join
our [Slack channel](https://istio.slack.com).

We were very proud to be called out as one of the top five

> [fastest growing](https://octoverse.github.com/#top-and-trending-projects)

Reviewer 7: This is cool! Hadn't realized that.
